# Introduction to StarkEx Explorer

StarkEx is an advanced layer-2 solution on top of Ethereum, offering users an
unprecedented combination of security, transparency, and control over their
funds. In this guide, we'll explore how the StarkEx Explorer can assist users in
ensuring their funds are safe and trades are valid.

## 1. Data Origin and Reliability in StarkEx Explorer

### Ethereum-based Data

StarkEx Explorer's cornerstone is its direct reliance on the Ethereum
blockchain. Every user balance and state update on the Explorer reflects data
confirmed and recorded by Ethereum.

### Data Delay and Implications

Due to the nature of Ethereum's periodic commits, data on the Explorer might
have a few hours delay. While this may not always mirror real-time activities on
StarkEx, it represents a dependable and immutable state from Ethereum.

### Why Ethereum-based Data Matters

The exclusive sourcing from Ethereum ensures data permanency. Thus, users can
have full confidence that the amount displayed on the Explorer is what they can
withdraw, regardless of potential StarkEx issues.

---

## 2. Navigating Forced Actions

### The Purpose Behind Forced Actions

StarkEx Exchange is designed to function smoothly under normal conditions.
However, unique situations, like user censorship by operators or unforeseen
platform hiccups, may require intervention. Forced actions come into play during
these rare circumstances, providing an emergency exit route to ensure user funds
remain secure and accessible.

### Forced Withdrawals: Step-by-Step

#### Why Forced Withdrawals?

At times, regular withdrawals might be delayed or obstructed. Whether due to
potential hitches in StarkEx's operation or a user finding themselves unable to
utilize the official interface, a forced withdrawal serves as a fallback
mechanism, assuring uninterrupted access to one's assets.

1. **Initiating the Withdrawal:**  
   _Screenshot: User dashboard highlighting the 'forced withdrawal' button._

2. **Determining the Amount:**  
   _Screenshot: Input box for entering the withdrawal amount._

3. **Ethereum Interaction:**  
   _Screenshot: Ethereum transaction confirmation box._

4. **Awaiting Operator Action:**  
   _Screenshot: User dashboard showing a pending forced withdrawal._

5. **Final Step - Retrieving Funds:**  
   _Screenshot: Withdrawal area with a 'Claim Funds' button._

### Forced Trades: A Comprehensive Guide

#### Why Forced Trades?

Imagine wanting to withdraw all collateral from the exchange, but having open
positions. These positions need closing first. If, for any reason (like being
censored from the official UI), you can't use standard trade options, forced
trades come to the rescue. This feature lets you close positions by finding a
willing counterparty, even if you can't interact directly with StarkEx's primary
interface.

1. **Choosing the Trade Option:**  
   _Screenshot: Open position options highlighting 'Sell/Buy' choices._

2. **Listing on the Database:**  
   _Screenshot: Explorer homepage showcasing 'Open Offers' section._

3. **Counterparty Interaction:**  
   _Screenshot: Trade offer acceptance confirmation._

4. **Finalizing the Trade:**  
   _Screenshot: User dashboard with 'Finalize Trade' prompt._

---

## 3. Delving into The Escape Hatch Mechanism

### Understanding the Need for an Escape Hatch

Exchanges, no matter how robust, can face unforeseen challenges. Operators might
become unresponsive, or perhaps a technical glitch temporarily halts activities.
In extreme cases, if StarkEx doesn't process a forced action within the expected
period, the entire system's integrity could be in jeopardy. The Escape Hatch is
a safeguard for these extraordinary situations. It's a drastic measure, ensuring
users can always retrieve their assets.

### Exchange Freezing

#### Why Freeze the Exchange?

If operators neglect their duties or don't honor forced actions, users deserve a
way to protect their interests. Freezing is a punitive action against the
operator's unresponsiveness. It's a significant step that prevents any further
regular activity on StarkEx, switching it to a "safe mode" where only emergency
actions can take place.

1. **Kickstarting the Escape:**  
   _Screenshot: 'Escape' button highlighted on the dashboard._

2. **Moving Forward - Finalization:**  
   _Screenshot: Dashboard prompt showcasing 'Finalize Escape' option._

3. **Concluding the Escape:**  
   _Screenshot: Withdrawal zone with 'Conclude Escape' option._
